Remove battery properties from vacuum entity (#2695)
home-assistant/developers.home-assistant: blog/2025-06-16-vacuum-battery-properties-deprecated.md

---
author: G Johansson
authorURL: https://github.com/gjohansson-ST
authorImageURL: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/62932417?v=4
authorTwitter: GJohansson
title: "Vacuum battery properties are deprecated"
---

> As of Home Assistant Core 2025.7, the two properties for battery in `StateVacuumEntity`, `battery_level` and `battery_icon`, has been deprecated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of Home Assistant Core 2025.8, the two properties for battery in `StateVacuumEntity`, `battery_level` and `battery_icon`, has been deprecated.
```

> The `battery_level` property should be replaced by a sensor with the `battery` sensor device class with the appropriate icon as provided by the previous `battery_icon` property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `battery_level` and `battery_icon` properties should be replaced by a separate sensor entity with the `battery` sensor device class and optionally a customized icon if the default icon of the battery sensor device class isn't wanted.
```

Optionally consider to also provide a binary sensor with the `charging` device class if it's currently charging or not.

> There is a one-year deprecation period, and the two battery properties will stop working from 2026.7 to ensure all custom integration authors have time to adjust.

Reviewer: Should we extend it to 2026.8?
